---
title: The 2025 Annual General Meeting
layout: post
---

## Minutes of the AGM 2025
Sunday 9 March 2025

### Welcome and Introductions
The Chairman made the necessary welcome and introductions.

### Confirmation of a quorum
There are currently 58 members with a 10% requirement to have 5.8 members present, rounded to 6. There were 6 leaseholders present.

### Chairperson's report
Leaseholders had been sent a very full report on the chief issues facing RLA in 2025 and beyond. There was a recognition of the dynamic leadership of the Chairman, whose work in holding First Port and others to account has been significant.

### Secretary's report
The Secretary gave a verbal report to say that there are currently 58 members but 42 apartments unrepresented. First Port are unable to release names and postal addresses of those 42 leaseholders due to data protection law. We continue to pick up new names in passing and by chance.

### Treasurer’s report
There are no accounts as there is no membership fee and therefore no bank account.

### Committee Elections
All five members of the current committee are required to stand down and are willing to stand again.

Proposal – By Jencir lee and seconded by Anne Perkins, that the committee is re-appointed en bloc. The motion was upheld unanimously

### Change to the Constitution
It was proposed by Rochelle Pereira and seconded by John Morgan that those parts of the constitution which refer to membership fees and finance are suspended until such time as a final decision is taken at a future general meeting.
The motion was carried by a majority of 9 with 1 abstention.

The constitution will continue to have all matters of membership and finance suspended until such time as it is considered necessary to lift the suspension.

### Objection to the presence of the Aspire Drug Re-habilitation Centre
This centre has been in Lower Bridge Street since 2009. Gus Wallace informed the meeting that the centre’s lease is due to be discussed at a meeting in October 2025 with the lease due for renewal in April 2026. 

It was proposed by Jencir Lee and seconded by Gus Wallace that RLA is opposed to any extension of Aspire’s licence/lease at their current premises due to the anti-social behaviour we are experiencing as a result of the centre’s close proximity to our homes. The motion was carried unanimously.

### Future events
The next committee meeting is to be arranged but should be on a Sunday in April before the 16th.

The next meeting between First Port and RLA will take place via ‘Teams’ on Wednesday the 16th of April between 14.30 and 15.30

## Notes of the general discussion
* The large part of informal discussion was taken up by member Bob Hamilton’s concern about the condition of the carpets in communal areas and staircases throughout Rivergate. He requested that the matter be brought up at our meeting with First Port with a view to planned replacement.
* The work of Nick Fruncillo, the caretaker for the site, was recognised  to be of the highest quality. He often carried out works which are over and beyond the call of duty. The site would be a poorer place without him. It was suggested that the committee write to him (copy to First Port) to express our sincere thanks for the work he does.
* A discussion was had on capital works. Gus Wallace advised that that FP are required to have a ten year programme of capital works so as to spread the impact of maintenance charges to leaseholders and to uphold the quality of the premises. The matter to be brought up at the next FP/RLA meeting.

## Chairman's Report 2025
### Succession of property managers
Alex Worsdale and Lee Farley, a stellar team, have been replaced by Harry Stanbury and his line manager James Williams. Maybe it will take some time for them to understand the Rivergate Scheme, because all communication is halted by First Port at the moment. We are reaching out over and over with no response. We also wrote to the freeholder Estates and Management Ltd.

### Account transparency
With the former property managers, we negotiated to receive quarterly expense accounts, which greatly helped the committee to note problems. We hope to continue this practice with the new property managers.

### Riverview House sinkhole, building safety
The sinkhole (cavity) on the footpath on Henry Penn Walk appeared 4+ years ago and the building has been standing on the rim of the crack. The owners of the footpath are the Riverview Shared Freeholders. So far it has been treated as a footpath repair under the oversight of the Highways Department. In recent weeks the drains and toilets were taken out of service. As the drains are attached to the underground part of the building and above them, it is now just an open hole. It may be that the building itself is moving (tilting) slightly.  The Building Safety Act 2022, (amended 2024 version), specifies the local regulator of building safety has powers and responsibility to ensure building safety in any case. We are trying hard to find out who the local regulator is. We can then get the freeholder and property managers to liaise with the City Council and the RiverView freeholders.

Riverview House is only 2-3 metres away from Burlington House. Financially the valuation of 2-bed apartments has dropped 18% to £110k compared with the city centre general level. The site’s insurance costs are likely to have soared.

### Bin store collection to reduce to bi-weekly
The city council intends to switch from weekly to bi-weekly collection for Admiral and Burlington Houses effective from the 1st of April 2025 and in line with the city-wide practice. Currently they have 6 bins each, but need 8 bins each for the new schedule. The bin stores therefore need enlarging.

We have urgently informed the freeholder and property managers. Hope they will act in time. There is always the danger that overflowing bins attract vermin.

### Balcony renovation warranty and liability
The balcony renovation was completed in August 2024. The principal surveyor Innovus and principal contractor AAST Ltd only gave 1-year warranties.  The Building Safety Act 2022 however extends the liability period to 15 years for any new building work. The project administrator, the principal surveyor and contractor all own liability to the freeholder. We wrote to him to assert their rights.

For the recent renovation, First Port hired directly their own group company Innovus skipping the tendering process. With the out-of-norm warranty, initially the surveyor only specified to treat half of the problem (the bottoms, but not the tops of balconies). Due to our intervention from an independent source this was changed to both tops and bottoms. We are on the watch re due process for other upcoming major works to urge First Port to use the competitive tendering process:
* roof, guttering, soffits and fascia maintenance 
* external maintenance e.g painting over the tarnishes in the car parks
* internal maintenance e.g replacing internal carpets 

### Membership fee and Treasury
The Committee members volunteer their time and the running costs for Rivergate Leaseholders Association are typically low.

There may however be cases where we need to levy considerable funds from members, e.g hiring external experts on major works, seeking legal solution to contentions, hiring of premises for meetings etc.

If we open a bank account, it is difficult to find a bank account for a civil association. We would be required to upgrade to a Company or Charity status and this would attract charges.

See - The [Tenants Associations Regulations 2018](https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2018/1043/contents/made). These make it explicit that the positions of Chairman, Secretary, and Treasurer are key for the Tribunal’s legal recognition of a Residents’ Association.

Given all the considerations, the committee propose to keep but suspend the membership fee phrase and Finance clauses in the Constitution (See items in red in constitution attached) until such time as we will need to act, in case funds are needed. One route might be to ask First Port to charge membership via the Service Charge to all leaseholders but as yet there is no response from them.

### The Aspire Recovery Service, drug abuse and vagrancy
The Aspire centre re-located to Lower Bridge St. in 2009. In 2014 the police station opposite the Aspire Centre moved away. Since then the stereotypical behaviour in the immediate area around Rivergate has been drug dealing and misuse along with begging. Your committee have been working with [antisocialbehaviour@peterborough.gov.uk](mailto:antisocialbehaviour@peterborough.gov.uk) and there has been a regular patrol on Viersen Platz but the promise of a re-located cctv camera has failed to materialise  The excesses of the drug trade have died down but the behaviour pattern continues. The Churchill House entrance door has been on occasion forced open and the premises used for drug taking. Burlington car park is still a venue for suspected drug dealing and taking. We continue to report instances of anti-social behaviour.
